---
title: "Why we should return to purpose built devices"
description: I'm tired of everything being turned into one brick.
slug: purpose-built-devices-are-nice
tags:
    - 100DaysToOffload
date: 2024-03-11T12:36:00Z
hidden: false
draft: false
---

For a long time I've been watching stuff move more and more to being consolidated into one device. I've never been too critical of this, because I do like removing bloat, and I also like to carry fewer objects around unless they have a good purpose. I like minimalism, and I think it's an important thing for everyone, whether you think it is or not. Shoe-horning lots of extra tools into your life makes everything harder and over-complicated. I love the build quality of a device like a nice phone, and having it be multi-purpose is great, but every time it's absorbed the use case of another device I own, it's let me down. I've hardly ever had a device replaced by my phone and had it do a much better job. For an example, my GPS device. When I'm using a dedicated GPS navigation device, I'm required to look at the maps and plan out my route. Countless times within this process, I've found a much better route and saved time or reduced frustration in my drive. When using my phone for navigation, it automatically makes my route, and even though my GPS device can do the same, it is a worse process and often my phone doesn't even have as many locations in it. My phone aswell has issues with it's battery getting cooked while doing maps on a long drive. My GPS also works online no-matter the location I'm in, and doesn't require large downloads to work in a spicific region. I have the entierty of north america. This is not a problem that my GPS navigator has, and it also has lifetime map updates. Did I mention that my GPS device is 18 years old? It still beats my phone running the latest firmware with the latest map updates. Alright, that's one application that maybe the phone isn't best suited to, but that's not everything. It may have some weak points, but it's still better in most cases, right? No... not at least for me. I listen to a lot of music, and my phone just isn't good enough. I'm always running into buffering, and all of the music that you can get from the streaming services is low quality. I know that Apple music is lossless, but it is lacking a lot of artists, and only some songs are lossless. Meanwhile my library of ripped music in flac is always local and is the highest quality. I prefer using an iPod (I am actually in the process of modding a 5.5 gen to a extreme extent atm) and music out of it always sounds better than what I can get on my phone. It also has it's own dedicated storage just for music, so local music is not taking up valuable storage on my phone. I can technically listen to flac music on my phone, but there are borderline no players that are a good experience and all of the new players are lacking a headphone jack. On a side tangent, although bluetooth audio is great and all, have you gone back to wired anytime recently? I own the AirPods Pro, and switching back and forth between them and even a cheap pair of my wired headphones makes them sound like a tin can. What am I expected to do? Use a dongle? Well now I can't charge, so that ruins any listening in the car I wanted to do. Through my experience, I think that purpose built devices always serve the purpose better, and I think that maybe phones should also be purpose built devices. I do wonder if there is a world where people will figure this out en mass and switch to simpler technology, but I fear that we may have gone down a rabbit hole that we can not climb back out. Phones are great for communication, but I think that maybe they should be limited to *just* phone/text communication. Computers can be used for social platforms like Discord & IRC, and can also be used to read your EMail. For many, a smartphone is nessisary for work, but I think if you can seperate yourself from these devices your life is better. They have too tight of a grip on our society and personal lifes.

One more comment. CAMERAS ON PHONES SUCK. I have an iPhone 13, and the sensor and pictures on it are worse than my point and shoot camera from 12 years ago. For all they talk about amazing cameras, they're just kinda crap.